.\" Written by Brian St. Pierre (bstpierre@bstpierre.org)
.\" Modified by RAM (Raphael_Manfredi@pobox.com)
.\" Modified by Hans de Graaff (hans@degraaff.org) for 0.96.2
.\" Integrated by RAM at version 0.18 within debian/ for Debian packaging
.\" Integrated by RAM at version 0.93 within mainstream
.\" Process this file with
.\"    groff -man -Tascii gtk\-gnutella.man
.\" or simply:
.\"    nroff -man gtk\-gnutella.man | less -s
.\"
.TH GTK\\-GNUTELLA 1 "April 2015" Version "1.1.4"
.SH NAME
gtk\-gnutella \- A Gnutella client for Gtk+
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gtk\-gnutella
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I gtk\-gnutella
is a GTK+ Gnutella client for Unix. It supports both searching and
sharing with the 0.6 version of the Gnutella protocol and includes
support for numerous protocol improvements and additions that have
been added to the Gnutella network since.
.P
The Gnutella network allows users to search for files and to advertise
files shared locally, but is not handling file transfers which is done
through HTTP.  The addition of Gnutella-specific HTTP headers makes each
Gnutella client a powerful file swarmer where even firewalled hosts can
contribute.
.P
Great care has been devoted into making
.I gtk\-gnutella
powerful, efficient and reliable.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-\-compile-info"
Tell
.I gtk\-gnutella
to output a list of variables describing compile-time configuration
information that was gathered when the program was built.
.TP
.B "\-\-daemonize"
This options causes 
.I gtk\-gnutella
to become a daemon. It detaches from the terminal (if started from
one) and forks itself into the background. It also changes it working
directory to the root directory i.e., "/" so that it doesn't block a
mount point for example. This is mainly meant for headless mode but
you can also use it if the Gtk+ GUI is enabled. 

For example, if you do not start gtk\-gnutella from a terminal but from
a window manager menu, there's little reason to not daemonize
gtk\-gnutella. Thus you might want to add the \-\-daemonize option in
this case. 

Please note that when 
.I gtk\-gnutella
is started as a daemon all output which is normally send to the
standard output and standard error output (usually your terminal or a
common log file such as ~/.xsession\-errors), is sent to
/dev/null. The options 
.B "\-\-log\-stderr"
and
.B "\-\-log\-stdout"
can be used to redirect log output in this case.
.TP 
\fB\-\-exec\-on\-crash \fIpath\fR
Execute command specified in
.I path
when
.I gtk\-gnutella
crashes.
.TP 
.B "\-\-geometry"
This option can be used to force the main window of the GUI to a
certain location on your screen and/or give it certain dimensions.

For example, the following would position the window in the lower right
corner with a width of 800 pixels and a height of 600 pixels:

    gtk\-gnutella \-\-geometry 800x600\-0\-0

Note that none of this can be guaranteed, your window manager has the
last word on this. This option is a traditional command-line switch
supported by most X11 applications.
.TP
.B "\-\-minimized"
Launches
.I gtk\-gnutella
with a minimized main window. Recommended when starting
.I gtk\-gnutella in
the background on login.
.TP
.B "\-\-help"
Show a summary of all supported options.
.TP
.B "\-\-log\-stderr", "\-\-log\-stdout"
These options allow you to log everything which is written to stderr
respectively stdout to some files. A typical use would look like this:

   gtk\-gnutella \-\-daemonize  \\
        \-\-log\-stderr ~/logs/gtkg.stderr \\
        \-\-log\-stdout ~/logs/gtkg.stdout

Redirecting these log messages also works without 
.B "\-\-daemonize."
Of course, log files can become large and you might want to archive
them or delete them periodically. After moving or deleting the log
files, you can send
.I gtk\-gnutella
a SIGHUP signal to create new log files.
.TP
.B "\-\-no\-dbus"
Disable notifications of
.I gtk\-gnutella
events to D-BUS.
.TP
.B "\-\-no\-restart"
Prevents
.I gtk\-gnutella
from auto-restarting itself when crashing on a platform where core dumps
are not possible or disabled.
.TP
.B "\-\-no\-xshm"
Disable MIT shared memory extension, when running with the X graphical
user-interface.
.TP
.B "\-\-pause\-on\-crash"
Pause the process on crash, so that a debugger may be attached to inspect
the current state for instance.
.TP
.B "\-\-ping"
This option allows you to check whether 
.I gtk\-gnutella
is currently running. This option returns with a success code when 
.I gtk\-gnutella
is already running, and with a failure code when it is not.

This allows you to use the following code to start 
.I gtk\-gnutella 
from a cron job or window manager menu and avoid starting it twice:

    gtk\-gnutella \-\-ping || gtk\-gnutella
.TP
.B "\-\-restart\-on\-crash"
Asks
.I gtk\-gnutella
to auto-restart itself after crashing on a platform where core dumps
are allowed.

Regardless of core dumping options,
.B "\-\-no\-restart"
will always prevent a restart whilst
.B "\-\-restart\-on\-crash"
will always request one if possible.  It is not allowed to supply both
options at the same time.
.TP
.B "\-\-shell"
When this option is used to connect to an already running 
.I gtk\-gnutella
process over a local unix domain socket. This socket is located at
"$GTK_GNUTELLA_DIR/ipc/socket", thus normally
"~/.gtk\-gnutella/ipc/socket". The socket is only accessible by the
user running gtk\-gnutella which is enforced by filesystem
permissions. The socket is in a dedicated directory because apparently
not all systems honor the access permissions on sockets as seen
through the filesystem.

You can disable this feature by setting the property
"enable_local_socket" to FALSE. It is recommendable to use this local
socket whenever possible instead of the TCP socket to access the shell
interface remotely. The reason is that the authentication token is
passed non-encrypted over the network and everyone who can sniff the
network is able to connect to the remote shell. This may not matter
over the loopback interface or a LAN, but it's a bad idea to use this
over the Internet.
.TP
.B "\-\-version"
Show the user-agent string used on the Gnutella network which also
holds the version information.
.TP
.B "\-\-topless"
Starts gtk\-gnutella without the graphical user-interface.
.SH GETTING STARTED
When
.I gtk\-gnutella
is first started, it will attempt to connect to a well-known hosts
server for some hosts to connect to. If you know a host you want to
connect to, you can enter it in the box on the GnutellaNet tab and
push the Add button. When first connecting to the gnutella network, it
can take some time to establish a stable connection. Be patient.
.SH SEARCHING
To search files just type your query in the search box at the top of
the screen. All searches, both active and inactive, are shown in the
sidebar.
.PP 
You can have multiple searches running at once. To start another
search while the first one is running, simply enter another search
term into the edit box at the top of the window.
.PP
To stop a particular search and remove its tab from the search window,
select the search by clicking on its tab and click the "Close search"
button. If you want to clear the list for a particular search, but
want to continue to see new files that are received for this search,
click the "Clear results" button.
.PP
It is possible to apply filtering to search results using the filter
editor. Click on "Edit filters" to access the editor. Use of the
filtering editor goes beyond the scope of this man page, but there is
a tutorial on this topic on the 
.I gtk\-gnutella
homepage.
.PP
When you find a file that you want to download, select the file in the
list and click "Download selected". This file will be placed in the
download queue. On the downloads view you can watch the download
progress of the file(s) you are downloading. 
.PP
It is also possible to select a bunch of files for downloading at
once. By holding down the control or shift keys while clicking files,
you can select several files and then click "Download selected" to put
them all in the download queue at once.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Most of the configuration can be done via the "Preferences" window
that can be accesed using the "File -> Preferences" menu-option.  You
will find several tabs there, each tab regrouping common information.
But some specific information pertaining to downloads or searches are
directly available on the "Downloads" and "Uploads" panes.
.PP
If you linger your mouse over each configuration parameter, a tooltip window
will popup explaining the meaning of that parameter.  You may have to press
"Enter" after a text input, or move the focus to another parameter to
validate your entry.  Items configured via spin buttons normally take
effect immediately, unless you type text instead of using the spin buttons.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $GTK_GNUTELLA_DIR/config_gnet
.RS
Per-user configuration file, for core settings. This can be edited when the
program is not running, but it is best to use the GUI to change configuration
variables.
.B gtk\-gnutella
saves this file every time the program is exited normally.
.RE
.TP
.I $GTK_GNUTELLA_DIR/config_gui
.RS
GUI configuration.  It is best to not edit this file.
.RE
.TP
.I $GTK_GNUTELLA_DIR/dmesh
.RS
This is where the download mesh is persisted.  You don't need to worry
about this.
.RE
.TP
.I $GTK_GNUTELLA_DIR/dmesh_ban
.RS
This is where temporarily banned download mesh entries are stored.
.RE
.TP
.I $GTK_GNUTELLA_DIR/done.namesize
.RS
This file holds the name and size of files completely downloaded by
.B gtk\-gnutella
and which will now be ignored.
.RE
.TP
.I $GTK_GNUTELLA_DIR/done.sha1
.RS
This file holds the SHA1 of files completely downloaded by
.B gtk\-gnutella
and which will now be ignored.
.RE
.TP
.I $GTK_GNUTELLA_DIR/downloads
.RS
This is where the download queue is persisted.  Only the direct downloads
(i.e. non-pushed) can be saved, since they don't need routing information.
.RE
.TP
.I $GTK_GNUTELLA_DIR/hosts
.RS
This is the host cache. This is saved by
.B gtk\-gnutella
on exit and should not be edited by hand.
.RE
.TP
.I $GTK_GNUTELLA_DIR/searches.xml
.RS
This is where the open searches and all the search filters are saved.
.RE
.TP
.I $GTK_GNUTELLA_DIR/sha1_cache
.RS
This is where the cache of all the computed SHA1 is stored.
.RE
.TP
.I $GTK_GNUTELLA_DIR/tth_cache
.RS
This is the directory under which all the computed TTH trees are stored.
These files are binary data.
.RE
.TP
.I $GTK_GNUTELLA_DIR/upload_stats
.RS
This file keeps track of the upload statistics.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.I gtk\-gnutella
searches
.B GTK_GNUTELLA_DIR
for configuration files. If this variable is not set,
.B HOME
is used instead. If 
.B HOME
is not set, then no configuration information will be saved when
.I gtk\-gnutella
exits.
.SH MAILING LISTS
There are a couple of mailing lists for
.I gtk\-gnutella.
See http://sourceforge.net/mail/?group_id=4467 for more info.
.SH BUGS
.I gtk\-gnutella
is production-quality software, but still has minor bugs and incomplete
or missing features.  But which software doesn't for its authors?
.PP
There are probably other missing features that should
be listed here.
.PP
A list of known bugs might be available at the
.I gtk\-gnutella
web site (see below.)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Additional information about gtk\-gnutella and the latest version are
available at
.B http://gtk\-gnutella.sourceforge.net/
.PP
Additional information about gnutella is available at
.B  http://www.the\\-gdf.org/
.B  http://www.infoanarchy.org/en/Gnutella
.B  http://rfc\\-gnutella.sourceforge.net/
.SH AUTHORS
Yann Grossel wrote the original
.B gtk\-gnutella
which was running as a Gnutella 0.4 client in 2000.
.PP
Raphael Manfredi <Raphael_Manfredi@pobox.com> is the current maintainer
and project leader (since version 0.14, released early September 2001).
.br
For support, please contact the developer list, which can be reached
at <gtk\-gnutella-devel@lists.sourceforge.net>.
.PP
For a full list of contributors, open the "About" menu.
.PP
Brian St. Pierre <bstpierre@bstpierre.org> wrote the initial version
of this manpage.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.I gtk\-gnutella
is Copyright (c) 2000, Yann Grossel, with additional copyrights held
by other contributors 2000-2014.
.PP
License to use and copy
.I gtk\-gnutella
is given under the terms of the GNU General Public
License (GPL), version 2. Please see the file COPYING in the
distribution for complete information.

This manual page can also be redistributed under the same conditions as
.I gtk\-gnutella
itself.
